Adds Keycloak OAuth provider (#1876)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/auth/social-auth/keycloak.md

1. Enabling Keycloak authentication in the Wasp file.
1. Adding the `User` entity.
1. Creating a Keycloak client.
1. Adding the necessary Routes and Pages
1. Using Auth UI components in our Pages.

<WaspFileStructureNote />

### 1. Adding Keycloak Auth to Your Wasp File

Let's start by properly configuring the Auth object:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    // 1. Specify the User entity (we'll define it next)
    // highlight-next-line
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      // 2. Enable Keycloak Auth
      // highlight-next-line
      keycloak: {}
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    // 1. Specify the User entity (we'll define it next)
    // highlight-next-line
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      // 2. Enable Keycloak Auth
      // highlight-next-line
      keycloak: {}
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> `userEntity` is explained in [the social auth overview](../../auth/social-auth/overview#social-login-entity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `userEntity` is explained in [the social auth overview](../../auth/social-auth/overview#social-login-entity).
```

### 2. Adding the User Entity

Let's now define the `app.auth.userEntity` entity:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
// ...
// 3. Define the User entity
// highlight-next-line
entity User {=psl
    id          Int     @id @default(autoincrement())
    // ...
psl=}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
// ...
// 3. Define the User entity
// highlight-next-line
entity User {=psl
    id          Int     @id @default(autoincrement())
    // ...
psl=}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 3. Creating a Keycloak Client

> 1. Login into your Keycloak admin console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into your Keycloak admin console.
```

> 1. Under "Clients", click on "Create Client".

Reviewer: In English, the quotation marks go inside the quotation marks:

```suggestion
1. Under "Clients," click on "Create Client."
```

It doesn't make any sense, I know, but that's the rule.

Author: I've decided to bold it instead of putting it in quotes. It avoids this situation and that's what we did in the other guides.

  ![Keycloak Screenshot 1](/img/auth/keycloak/1-keycloak.png)

> 1. Fill in the "Client ID" and give your client a name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fill in the "Client ID" and choose a name for the client.
```

KEYCLOAK_REALM_URL=https://your-keycloak-url.com/realms/master
```

We assumed in the `KEYCLOAK_REALM_URL` env variable that you are using the `master` realm. If you are using a different realm, replace `master` with your realm name.

### 5. Adding the Necessary Routes and Pages

Let's define the necessary authentication Routes and Pages.

Add the following code to your `main.wasp` file:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
// ...

// 6. Define the routes
route LoginRoute { path: "/login", to: LoginPage }
page LoginPage {
  component: import { Login } from "@src/pages/auth.jsx"
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
// ...

// 6. Define the routes
route LoginRoute { path: "/login", to: LoginPage }
page LoginPage {
  component: import { Login } from "@src/pages/auth.tsx"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

We'll define the React components for these pages in the `src/pages/auth.{jsx,tsx}` file below.

### 6. Create the Client Pages

:::info
We are using [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) to style the pages. Read more about how to add it [here](../../project/css-frameworks).
:::

> Let's now create a `auth.{jsx,tsx}` file in the `src/pages`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now create an `auth.{jsx,tsx}` file in the `src/pages`.
```

It should have the following code:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```tsx title="src/pages/auth.jsx"
import { LoginForm } from 'wasp/client/auth'

export function Login() {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <LoginForm />
    </Layout>
  )
}

// A layout component to center the content
export function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <div className="w-full h-full bg-white">
      <div className="min-w-full min-h-[75vh] flex items-center justify-center">
        <div className="w-full h-full max-w-sm p-5 bg-white">
          <div>{children}</div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```tsx title="src/pages/auth.tsx"
import { LoginForm } from 'wasp/client/auth'

export function Login() {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <LoginForm />
    </Layout>
  )
}

// A layout component to center the content

> export function Layout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {

Reviewer: I think you should import `React`.

Author: Types work just fine even without importing it, I've just tested it

Reviewer: Hm, strange. But if everything works (hope you checked build), then no problem.

I'd still probably do:
```typescript
import { ReactNode } from 'react';
```
But it's just a matter of personal style.

:::

### Conclusion

Yay, we've successfully set up Keycloak Auth!

Running `wasp db migrate-dev` and `wasp start` should now give you a working app with authentication.
To see how to protect specific pages (i.e., hide them from non-authenticated users), read the docs on [using auth](../../auth/overview).

## Default Behaviour

Add `keycloak: {}` to the `auth.methods` dictionary to use it with default settings:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```wasp title=main.wasp
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      // highlight-next-line
      keycloak: {}
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```wasp title=main.wasp
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      // highlight-next-line
      keycloak: {}
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<DefaultBehaviour />

## Overrides

<OverrideIntro />

### Data Received From Keycloak

> We are using Keycloak API and the `/userinfo` endpoint to fetch the user's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using Keycloak's API and its `/userinfo` endpoint to fetch the user's data.
```

  return {
    scopes: ['profile', 'email'],
  }
}
```

<GetUserFieldsType />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using Auth

<UsingAuthNote />

## API Reference

<ApiReferenceIntro />

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      keycloak: {
        // highlight-next-line
        configFn: import { getConfig } from "@src/auth/keycloak.js",
        // highlight-next-line
        userSignupFields: import { userSignupFields } from "@src/auth/keycloak.js"
      }
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```wasp title="main.wasp"
app myApp {
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.13.0"
  },
  title: "My App",
  auth: {
    userEntity: User,
    methods: {
      keycloak: {
        // highlight-next-line
        configFn: import { getConfig } from "@src/auth/keycloak.js",
        // highlight-next-line
        userSignupFields: import { userSignupFields } from "@src/auth/keycloak.js"
      }
    },
    onAuthFailedRedirectTo: "/login"
  },
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> The `keycloak` dict has the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keycloak` dictionary has the following properties:
```

Author: We call the type in Wasp language `dict` https://wasp-lang.dev/docs/general/language#complete-list-of-wasp-types 🤷

Reviewer: Ha, didn't know that!

I always thought the author was lazy whenever I read `dict`.
